Add NumPy Developer in Residence post (#98)
scientific-python/blog.scientific-python.org: content/posts/numpy/fellowship-program/index.md

---
title: "NumPy's first Developer in Residence: Sayed Adel"

> date: 2022-11-30

Reviewer: 2022-12-01

draft: false
description: |

>   Introducing the NumPy Developer in Residence program, and its

Reviewer: We went with NumPy Fellowship Program in the end, as in the first sentence of the main text. Let's use that in this description.

generously shared his knowledge of SIMD instructions with the core
developer team, and helped integrate the work of various volunteer and
industry contributors in this area. As a result, we've been able to
expand support to multiple CPU architectures, integrating contributions
from IBM, Intel, Apple, and others, none of which would have been
possible without Sayed. Furthermore, when NumPy tentatively started
using C++ in 2021, Sayed was one of the proponents of the move and
helped with its implementation.

The NumPy Steering Council sees Sayed's appointment to this role as both
recognition of his past outstanding contributions as well as an
opportunity to continue improving NumPy's computational performance. In
the next 12 months, we'd like to see Sayed focus on the following:

- SIMD code maintenance,
- code review of SIMD contributions from others,
- performance-related features,
- sharing SIMD and C++ expertise with the team and growing a NumPy
  sub-team around it,
- SIMD build system migration to Meson,
- and wherever else Sayed's interests take him.

"I'm both happy and nervous: this is a great opportunity, but also a

> great responsibility," said Sayed in response to his appointment.

Reviewer: One more comment: how about using italics for the quote, to make it stand out?

Reviewer 2: I don't think we should do it.

Reviewer: Okay, not attached to this comment.

Author: Sorry, Inessa, I missed your comment here; are you okay with the final version?

Reviewer 2: Yes, I am. 🙌

Author: Excellent :)

The funds for the NumPy Fellowship Program come from a partnership with
Tidelift and from individual donations. We sincerely thank both

> Tidelift and everyone who donated to the project---without you, this

Author: this renders correctly as an em-dash

program would not be possible! We also acknowledge the CPython
Developer-in-Residence and the Django Fellowship programs, which
served as inspiration for this program.

> Sayed will officially start as NumPy Developer in Residence on 1

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Sayed is officially starting as NumPy Developer in Residence on 1
```
